---
title: My story
date: 2017-05-15
author: Claudia 
layout: post
image: '/images/posts/main/my-story.jpg'
tags: personal
---

If you would have asked me what do I do four years ago, I would have said something like *“I’m a chemical engineer, I work with users of radioactive material, helping them to ensure safety in the transport of such materials.  I’m also learning about nuclear security, and I’m very excited about the idea of applying what I know about processes and quality management in any nuclear facility.”*

At that time I had just graduated from a chemical engineering program, and I was working as a junior engineer for the [Argentine Nuclear Regulatory Authority](http://www.arn.gov.ar/) (in Spanish Autoridad Regulatoria Nuclear, ARN).  I loved my job, and I was more than happy with my story.

I came from a very small town at the very north edge of Argentina.  After years of financial struggle, I had finally become the first one in the family to have a university degree and a professional job.  I was debt free, and able to support myself and help my family.  My parents couldn’t be more proud of me; I was pretty proud of myself.

But, of course, that wasn’t the end of my story, only the beginning.

While I was working at ARN I met Chris, my now husband.  Chris was born and raised in north America.  He was (and still is) a software engineer who works remotely.  When we met, he was escaping the north-American winter and spending a few months in sunny Buenos Aires.  To make it short.  We fell in love, he asked if I wanted to explore the world with him, and I said yes.  I quit my really great job with the confidence that I had the skills and knowledge to find a similar job anywhere I wanted.  And so, I packed my suitcase and for a year and a half we traveled around the globe living in countries such as Chile, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, and finally the U.S.

Something I learned in all those years of traveling is that you don’t just move somewhere, start applying for jobs and get hired (or maybe you do, but that wasn’t my case).  First you need government permissions.  Visas.  Work permits.  And sometimes it takes months to get them.  Also you may need to learn a new language, and you'll have to make connections.  What I learned from traveling and looking for a job abroad is the importance of being resourceful and persistent.

I didn't have much trouble finding easy jobs abroad, but I just couldn't get into the nuclear field again.  Every time I would find an interesting position, a job that was 100% match to my skill-set, the citizenship requirement would be on my way.  When we finally decided to settle down in the U.S., I was tired of sending resumes for jobs in my area of expertise, and I had decided to look for a new field of interest.  While waiting for my work permit to be processed, I started working with Chris on his side-project, [Spendabit](http://spendabit.co), a search engine for products that you can buy with Bitcoin.  For a few months, I dabbled in the areas of web design and programming.  I enjoyed learning HTML, CSS, and a little bit of programming in Python and Scala, but I didn't quite love it.  I still wanted to do something else, I still wanted to use my chemical engineering background.  The truth is, I felt lost.

Family and friends recommended going back to university, and getting a Master’s degree to update my credentials.  I had had some trouble translating my technical knowledge from Spanish to English, so I thought it wasn't such a bad idea.  That's how I got enrolled in a one year Master's in Engineering program at the [University of Waterloo](https://uwaterloo.ca/chemical-engineering/) in Canada.

Now this is how it went, I found something that caught my interest, I found passion about the analysis of data to improve decision making.  I loved designing experiments, gathering data, the statistical analysis of data, the way you can make predictions and optimize results.  I discovered this by taking a class on Fuel Cell Technology, and then another one on Statistics in Engineering.  After graduating, I wanted to find a data-related job, and soon I started applying for all sorts of positions that had the word data in it: junior business analyst, data analyst, junior data scientist, etc. but the only thing I got back was silence.

What was/is the problem? Well, I realize I don't have a degree in business, or in computer science, in addition, I don't have any formal experience in the field.  What I have is the desire to learn, and the ability to do it quickly.  I decided to make a plan to change my career, I would take on-line courses, work on small side projects, and try to get into a junior position.  I was slowly working on that plan when I found [Praxis](https://discoverpraxis.com/).

Praxis is a nine-month apprenticeship start up that accelerates your professional (and personal) growth.  At Praxis I clearly realized that my employment problem was a direct function of not having tangible proof of what I’m capable of doing related to the data analytics field.

*How I’m breaking the mold?* To make my career change, I’m not going back to school to get new credentials, I'm not taking more on-line courses only to get a certification, what I'm doing now is to constantly look for opportunities to create value in the field I'm passionate about, and learning by doing.  That’s my present, and the new beginning of my story.
